Investigators in the
US and around the world
have identified a revenue source
being exploited by Hamas online
donors offering
support in cryptocurrency.
Now, even before Hamas launched
a surprise attack on Israel, US
officials had been probing
the group's use of cryptocurrency
through alleged money launderers.
Hamas's use
of digital currency represents
just one of the many ways
the terrorist organization
has sought to raise funds
while evading sanctions.
Hamas and other terrorist groups
have used
Facebook and acts
to publicly post their crypto
wallet addresses asking for donations.
That's according to a report
by US authorities.
All right.
Joining me now is military man seeking
CEO of the crypto analytics software firm
Beto O'Rourke.
Thanks so much for being here with us.
So just first, how significant
a role is crypto in
terms of funding Hamas?
Well, from our
side, we've analyzed and studied deeply
the addresses
belonging to companies
controlled by Hamas,
as indicated in two orders
15, 22 and 1923.
It's public.
So the total amount of almost $41
million was received at this addresses.
And this is a total to turn over
all the addresses
listed in to previous seizure orders
and this was this significant amount
received from September 2021
and April 2024.
So over four years,
with the majority accounts
being received
between December 2022 and April 2023.
So yes, all the things.
So, so that's a lot.
But obviously it could be a lot more
that we don't know about.
So how exactly does it work?
How do they they get the money?
I understand
they fundraise on social media.
I mean, how does that all work?
So they gather
different, different social media
and putting the
different wallets, addresses
and then they're collecting
money, I mean, crypto
from all over the world.
And then they are using intermediary
addresses from a different kind
of exchanges around the world
and then collecting them
into several wallets and and funds.
This means they are laundering money
using crypto.
Well, it happens, unfortunately.
Is it untraceable in terms of the people
who are who are donating this money?
Almost.
So in case
if somebody say in investing or donating,
terrorists are going to be organizations
directly via centralized exchanges.
It's possible, but nobody is doing that.
So they are actually
they are usually
using decentralized wallets
and non-custodial wallets
and then
those organizations are laundering money
to avoid such.
So just closing.
So it's almost impossible.
Yeah.
So I mean, we're talking about,
you know, people
donating money on social media,
but in terms of these intermediaries
and so on, I mean, what
what role does Iran play here?
You mean centralized exchanges and so
on, so
we can determine the precise
origin of the funds.
So whether they were directly sent from
from other terrorist groups
or source from donations, etc..
But however, our investigation
revealed that a significant portion
of this
funds primarily
originated from cryptocurrency exchanges.
Some of them are really popular,
some of them are
have Russia origin,
but it's not connected with Russia.
So because it's not
it's not, you know, exchanges,
they are not aiming to help terrorists.
That's the most important thing here.
But in some of the cases, they are blind
and they cannot understand
what really happened.
And early and sometimes weeks or months
should be passed
till the exchanges are revealing
such bad things happening.
So it's not it's not online.
So time should pass.
And now we may see that
some of the exchanges fall under such bad
circumstance in terms of money
laundering and terrorist financing.
So, I mean, it sounds very hard to stop.
I mean, what more can be done to
to cut off this source
of funding for Hamas?
Yeah, that's the good question.
I mean, crypto is still in the gray zone,
but things that thankfully for you,
you know, international anti-money
and anti-money
laundering measures are coming.
And because of legislation
helping to reveal the source of funds,
the dirty money in crypto,
it goes more and more better to reveal.
And from my perspective,
the best way is to use KYC.
AML measures
in any kind of wallets exchanges
and to to put exchanges,
put exchanges attention on that.
And,
you know, after all, crypto is not about
crime, is not about terrorist
organizations, financing, etc.,
but anybody should be aware of it
because of where we are.
So it happens
and everybody should pay
a lot of attention on it.
Yeah, it's it's very complex
for most of us to untangle,
but really appreciate
getting your insights
on this Dmitri magic.
And thank you so much.
Thanks.